TobagoProposal

* VERSION 1.0 *

Proposal for new sub-project Tobago (of MyFaces)

12th August 2005, The Tobago Team (contributions by: Udo Schnurpfeil, Volker
Weber, Philippe Hennes, Arvid Hülsebus, Bernd Bohmann, Detlef Bartetzko)

(0) Rational

The goal of Tobago is to provide the community with a well designed set of user 
interface components based on JSF and run on MyFaces.

Tobago is more than just a tag library. The following statements characterize 
Tobago and makes it different from other frameworks:

The focus of Tobago is to create business applications without the need for HTML 
design. The development of Tobago pages follows more the development of 
conventional user interfaces than the creation of web pages. 

The ui components are abstracted from HTML and any layout information that does 
not belong to the general page structure. The final output format is determined 
by the client/user-agent.

A theming mechanism makes it easy to change the look and feel and to provide 
special implementations for certain browsers. A fallback solution ensures that 
as much code is reused for new themes as possible.

A layout manager is used to arrange the components automatically. This means, no
manual layouting with HTML tables or other constructs is needed.

A life demo can be found here: http://tobago.atanion.net

The development of Tobago started in 2002.

(0.1) Criteria

Meritocracy

The Tobago project will be meritocratic. The project will therefore follow the
guidelines of the Apache Foundation.

We use defined roles and responsibilities like contributors and commiters.

We believe in teamwork and in the consens brought by discussions that are done
on a mailing list. Votings will establish the final 'will' of the community.

Community

We believe that Tobago will attract a stable community sufficient in size. All 
MyFaces users/developers are potential Tobago users/developers. Tobago will make 
MyFaces even more attractive.

Core Developers:

Tobago was mainly developed by six employees of Atanion while working (if
applicable) and in spare time. However, at the moment two of them could be
counted as real experts or core developers and the others have a good knowledge
of the project.

All developers will file the Contribution License Agreement. Atanion GmbH will 
file the Corporate Contribution License Agreement.

Two PMC members from the MyFaces project also want to become Tobago committers:
Martin Marinschek and Matthias Wessendorf (both PMCs Myfaces).

Alignment:

Tobago is a framework built on top of JSF and therefore works well with MyFaces.
The project makes use of several Apache libraries like Commons, Taglibs and Ant.

(0.2) Warning signs

Orphaned products:

All active developers would like to become Tobago Committers or PMC members and
plan to remain active in the project.

Inexperience with open source:

The current Tobago developers have experience with open source projects. However
in the past this was restricted by using open source projects and participating
on there mailing lists. No active development was done.

Martin Marinschek and Matthias Wessendorf do have a lot of experience with open
source.

Homogenous developers:

From scratch the project will start with six developers of one company and two
additional developers from other companies. We hope to attract more
individual developers soon.

Reliance on salaried developers:

Tobago was developed in working and spare time and does not rely on salaried
developers. However Atanion will support the project in the future by dedicating
'work time' to Tobago.

No ties to other Apache products:

Tobago makes excessive use of serveral components of the Jakarta Commons. It is
developed on the Tomcat JSP/Servlet container. (However it runs also on other
containers.) Tobago is the ideal addition for MyFaces.

A fascination with the Apache brand:

We respect and admire the work done by the Apache Foundation. Various open
source projects of the foundation have saved us an almost unlimited amount of
development time or money in case of not using commercial products. We want to
give something back to the community and become part of it.

(1) Scope of subprojects

As mentioned above Tobago is the ideal addition for MyFaces. Therefore we prefer to
become a subproject of MyFaces.

(2) Initial source

The source code can be found under: http://www.atanion.net/repos/asf/tobago/trunk/

The source code is provided under the Apache License, version 2.0

(3) ASF resource to be created

(3.1) Mailling-list

At the moment the existing mailing lists of the MyFaces project should be 
sufficient to discuss and announce Tobago topics. If not, we need the following 
lists:

	* tobago-dev
	* tobago-user
	* tobago-pmc

(3.2) Subversion

A subversion repository with one module 'incubator-tobago'.

(3.3) Issue tracking

At the moment the MyFaces JIRA module could be used.

(4) initial set of committers

(4.1) Already ASF committers

	* Martin Marinschek, martin.marinschek@gmail.com (PMC MyFaces)
	* Matthias Wessendorf, mwessendorf@gmail.com (PMC MyFaces)

(4.2) Other committers

	* Udo Schnurpfeil, udo@schnurpfeil.de
	* Volker Weber, asf@weber-oldenburg.de
	* Philippe Hennes, philippe.hennes@philstar.de
	* Arvid Hülsebus, idus@krelon.com
	* Bernd Bohmann, bernd.bohmann@atanion.com
	* Detlef Bartetzko, detlef.bartetzko@gmail.com

(5) Apache sponsoring individuals

Tobago is sponsored by MyFaces. Mentors are Martin Marinschek and Matthias 
Wessendorf from the MyFaces project (both PMCs). Champion is Manfred Geiler 
(MyFaces PMC Chair).